Hi and welcome back to The Masterclass.
Let's talk about sitting and standing during interviews.
So we already covered part of this.
When you're sitting, plant your feet firmly on the ground.
I have your torso and the rest of your body facing the camera and your shoulders up and out slightly
to project confidence.
You do not want to round your shoulders out or slouch them or have your head disappear into your neck
like this, because that shows a lack of confidence and you want to project yourself as the candidate
that that can solve the problem that the interviewers have.
Now, what happens if you're standing?
Then you want to make sure that your toes are pointing towards the interviewer and especially when you
greet them.
This is vital because when your toes are pointing to in any other direction, then you will not be entirely
invested.
What it means is during the evolution of humans, the feet and the legs have been the most reliable
partners for us to run away or to face danger.
And in order to do that, the feet have just like other extremities.
When you're faced in an uncomfortable situation, then all the blood flows to your extremities, your
fingertips, your feet, your toes, things like that.
So when you're not comfortable and you don't want to be in an interview, you don't want to be in that
situation, then the first thing, the most reliable indicator of that would be your toes, and they
would point towards the exit.
Now if you're pointing towards the exit, then that immediately tells me, for example, that you don't
want to be part of that conversation, and that would be a red flag.
We want to avoid red flags here.
Face the interviewer.
What if you have multiple interviewers?
You always know that one person is the leader of that group and the main interviewer.
They may not be the topmost boss, but they will be the ones that they will be the person that takes
charge and wants to interview you and face them.
And if you don't know who that person is, then face everyone else equally and try to face the person
in the middle.
And it's okay to turn your torso when you're talking to different people like this.
But you don't need to turn your entire body, your your toes don't need to shift from one person to
another every time you answer a question put forth by a different interviewer, so be stable.
And another piece of advice would be your physical stability in the stability of your structure will
determine how confident your responses are as well.
So don't stand don't lean too far back or to the sides, because if you're not stable enough, then
your responses will be will not be concrete either.
So that said.
You also want to lean slightly forward instead of backward.
And when you lean slightly forward towards the person that's talking to you, you don't need to lean
all the way like this, but just a little forward.
That tells the interviewer that you are invested in that conversation.
And it tells the interviewer that you are actively listening.
And this is about sitting and standing.
When you're when you're standing, don't make unnecessary movements with your hands.
Of course, we talked about the handshake and all that earlier, but other than that, if you want a
distraction, then you can always hold on to your resume.
Or if you have a tablet or or device to share a presentation, then you can always hold on to those
and that that would give your hands something to do.
But if there's nothing to do, then avoid the need to stretch.
Or do things like this.
Or stretch your arms.
Avoid.
Avoid all these.
So just keep your arms next to your sides and by your side and just be casual but at the same time be
actively invested in the conversation.
You can also use your hands for gesturing if your hands are free and some hand gestures we already covered
in the previous video.
Now I'll cover some more hand gestures here.
If you're talking about.
Yourself.
Then you say I.
But if you're talking about you all, then that could be you.
Of us.
All of us.
None of us.
But notice that my arms, my hands don't go.
Don't extend far beyond my shoulders.
And that's because of this space that I talked to you about.
You want to keep your hand gesturing within that space.
Now, that said, thank you so much for watching and I look forward to the next video.